Day 20 - 181 Goals: What we will make by the end of the day


is really exciting because we're going to be using the knowledge that we've gained about Object Oriented Programming,
as well as what we learned about how to use the turtle module to build the famous snake game.

when we're thinking about a complex problem the first step is to break down the problem.
And I'm going to break down this problem of building the snake game into SEVEN separate steps.

And the way we're going to do it is we're going to tackle the first three steps on Day 1 and the last four steps on Day 2.
So we're going to split up this game into two parts and we're going to tackle it over two days.

The first step is to create a snake body, and we're going to do that by creating three squares on the screen,
all lined up next to each other. And then we're going to figure out how to move the snake so that it continuously
moves forward and all we have to do is tell it to change direction.
Afterwards, we're going to figure out how to control the snake using keyboard controls.

So we're going to be using the up, left, down, and right arrow keys to move our snake across the screen.

And that is what we're aiming for by the end of today, Day 20.

On Day 21, we're going to continue and we're going to build out the last four steps of the snake game.
Then we'll need to start putting some food onto the screen and started to detect
the collision with the food so that once the snake hits the food, then a new piece of food gets created randomly
on the screen at some sort of random location.

And then it's a matter of keeping track of the score and creating a scoreboard.
So we're going to learn how to write text in our program so that once the snake hits a piece of food,
the score automatically updates.

And then next we're going to figure out when the game should end.
So one of the cases when the game should end is when the snake has collided with the wall.
And at this point we should see game over, show up on screen and the snake should no longer move.

And then finally, the other reason why our game could end is when the snake has collided with its own tail.
So the snake basically can't chase his own tail. And as the snake gets longer, this problem is more likely to occur.
And when their head hits any part of the body of the snake, then it's again, game over.

So these are the seven steps that it takes to create the snake game.